 The Trump Organization just got new to from orbit.
 It's not getting a lot of press, but this is a blockbuster ruling that just put Trump's
 entire business empire in jeopardy, and it's just going to get worse for him.
 And this likely isn't just some slap on the wrist that he can get out of.
 No, this looks like it's really going to hurt Trump in the place that he really cares about,
 his pocketbook. Now New York judge Arthur Engoron has ruled that
 Trump committed financial fraud by overstating the value of his assets.
 The judge cancelled the New York business certificates of all 131 companies related to Trump
 and his sons in New York, stripping the ability of the Trump family to do business in that state.
 And at the time of this video, the Trump group is currently in trial over the other fraud allegations.
 It's being presided by none other than the same judge Engoron. And it's not going well.
 It's a bench trial because apparently Trump's lawyer, Elena Habba, forgot to check the box to
 request a jury trial. She really earned that FT ranking. But even before trial,
 the judge's order on the first count is catastrophic. And the repercussions from this are staggering.
 This is like bankruptcy, but much worse. And as you may know, the New York Attorney General
 filed charges alleging that the Trump Organization committed fraud for at least a decade involving
 conduct across more than 23 different properties and other assets. We did a video on this complaint,
 which you can watch for a deep dive into those allegations. But here's a quick recap.
 When valuing the Trump properties, the Trump Organization would change methodology on how to
 value the properties from year to year or even within the same year, depending on who they were
 talking to. Some of the fraud was allegedly accomplished through sophisticated accounting slide of
 hand, but other acts were blatant and easy to detect. For example, Trump estimated that his own
 triplex apartment in Trump Tower was 30,000 square feet when it was actually 10,996 square feet.
 In 2015, Trump valued the apartment at $327 million in total or $29,738 per square foot.
 That price was absurd since at that point, only one apartment in New York City had ever been
 sold for more than $100 million. And that sale was in a newly built Ulfert Hall Tower.
 No apartment in the 30 year old Trump Tower has ever sold for more than 16.5 million.
 And he allegedly, well, no, I guess at this point it's not alleged anymore.
 It's been proven that he used the same trick with his Florida real estate.
 The Attorney General said that Trump valued Mar-Lago as high as 739 million when it should have
 been valued at around $110 million. Attorney General Alicia James said that the higher valuation
 was, quote, based on the false premise that it was unrestricted property and could be developed
 for residential use, even though Mr. Trump himself signed deeds donating his residential development
 rights and sharply restricting changes to the property. And the judge discussed Mar-Lago quite a bit
 in his detailed order. Here's a quick rundown because it shows how Trump gained the system and
 why he's in big trouble now. When Palm Beach County, Florida denied Trump the right to develop
 the property, Trump established a conservation easement, which is basically a restriction in the
 deed that says he won't develop the property. That gave him a tax write-off because now he can't
 build houses or anything else on that property. However, Trump then told Lenders that the property
 was worth a lot of money because someone could come along and develop it, which was an obvious lie.
 It appears that he gave the conservation easement because there was nothing that he could do
 with that particular land. And Trump's various business entities played these games with property
 valuation for decades. Alicia James filed a civil enforcement action against the companies and
 referred the case to federal prosecutors in the Southern District of New York. So far, the feds
 have declined to indict Trump on these charges, but the New York Attorney General's enforcement
 action brought seven causes of action under New York executive law section 6312. This law authorizes
 the New York Attorney General to bring civil lawsuits to enjoying repeated fraudulent or illegal acts
 or persistent fraud or illegality in carrying on, conducting or transacting of business.
 Civil penalties for those who violate the law include actual damages,
 discouragement of profits, canceling of corporate certificates, and other prohibitions.
 We'll come back to that later. Now, Trump had already tried to get the laws to dismiss at an
 early stage by claiming that any discrepancies and evaluations of his properties are the fault of
 his accountant's maizars, but he lost that effort on appeal. On summary judgment, Trump raised all
 the same defenses, and that made judge and grown very unhappy. The judge wrote the quote,
 defendants arguments that OAG has neither capacity nor standing to sue under executive
 law 6312, and that the disclaimers of non-party accounts maizards insulate defendants invoke the
 time loop in the film Groundhog Day. This court emphatically rejected these arguments, and in its
 preliminary injunction decision and in its dismissal decision, and the first department affirmed both.
 Defendant's contention that a different procedural posture mandates a reconsideration,
 or a for sure-i, a reversal, is pure sophistry. So here's legal legal pro tip number one,
 when the judge compares your argument to the film Groundhog Day and accuses you of sophistry,
 you're about to get a legal beat down. Now, the gist of Trump's argument here was that the New York
 AG wasn't really acting in the interest of consumer protection, and this prompted the judge to call
 out Trump's lawyers for adding the word consumer to a legal decision that does not appear anywhere in
 the decision. As the judge explained, quote, defendants glaringly misrepresent the requirement of
 an executive law 6-3-12 cause of action. Siding to people versus non-immolicing systems,
 the defendants assert that OAG must show the practice is one likely to mislead a reasonable
 consumer, acting reasonably under the circumstances. However, the word consumer did not appear anywhere
 in that reference decision and defendants characterization of its holding is inaccurate.
 Additionally, Trump tried to argue that the state can't sue him because the statements of
 financial condition that he filed with the state contain disclaimers from his accountants that they
 haven't been audited and therefore the company can't say whether the financial statements comply
 with generally accepted accounting principles or gap. The judge rejected this argument.
 Don't believe anything you read, some people call it a worthless clause because it makes the
 statement and anything you read in the statement worthless. It says go out and do your own research,
 go out and do your own due diligence. You have to study the statement carefully. Do not believe
 anything. Quote, those non-party disclaimers do not insulate the defendants from liability as they
 plainly state that Donald J. Trump is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the
 financial statement in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
 America. And that's extremely common. The accountants need that disclaimer because they're relying
 on the information that the company provides them. The company can't use that disclaimer to say that
 they weren't responsible for providing accurate information. Not surprisingly, Maesars dropped
 Trump as a client in 2022, citing his misleading and probably fraudulent personal financial statements.
 Next, the judge excoriates Trump for repeating another argument that several courts have already
 rejected, namely that discouragement of profits is unavailable as a matter of law when the OIG has
 not alleged specific financial losses. The judge reminds Trump that an appeals court has already
 quote, made it clear in this very case that we have already held that the failure to alleged losses
 does not require just missile of a claim for discouragement under executive law 6312.
 Now, that's a big one because Trump at least publicly has been arguing that no one was harmed by
 his misrepresentations. The banks got paid back and therefore there are no damages.
 No bank was affected. No bank was hurt. They don't even know why they have to be involved.
 But this law allows the attorney general to make the Trump organization
 discourage any profit that they made related to these misrepresentations during this time period.
 And who knows, that could be a lot of money. And continuing with some truly F tier
 lawyering, Trump's attorneys cited a case that has been superseded and overruled. And they also
 cited the court's decision in the Trump University case where quote, the first department unambiguously
 declared that the attorney general is in fact authorized to bring a cause of action for fraud
 under executive law 6312. Now that brings us to legal legal pro-tip number two.
 Drawing attention to a case that resulted in your client paying $25 million to settle fraud claims
 is rarely a good strategy, especially when your client is going on trial for more fraud.
 But here's legal illegal pro-tip number three.
 Misrepresenting the precedent and repeating arguments that you already lost,
 puts you on shaky ground with judges. And as judge Engoran put it quote,
 in rejecting such arguments for the second time, this court caution that sophisticated
 counsel should have known better. However, the court declined to impose sanctions believing it
 had made its point. Apparently the point was not received. And the court continued quote,
 defendants conduct in reiterating these frivolous arguments is egregious.
 We are way beyond the point of sophisticated counsel should have known better. We are at the point
 of intentional and blatant disregard of controlling authority and law of the case.
 This court infatically rejected these arguments as did the first department.
 Defendants repetition of them here is indefensible. And would you believe it?
 These lawyers then got sanctioned for thousands of dollars.
 Now there are two categories of conduct that can subject a party to liability under executive law
 6312. Acts that are fraudulent and acts that are illegal. The Attorney General alleges that
 the Trump defendants engaged in both fraudulent and illegal acts, but moved for some regesment
 only as to fraud. And there's a very good reason for this. Executive law 6312 broadly can
 prove fraud to quote include acts characterized as dishonest or misleading. And the statute
 prescribes any acts committed in the conduct of business that have the capacity or tendency to
 deceive or that create an atmosphere conducive to fraud. Such acts include those committed through
 any scheme to defraud and those through misrepresentation concealment suppression or false pretence.
 And in addition to the business entities themselves, individual defendants may also be liable for
 fraud under section 6312. If they personally participated in it or had actual knowledge of it
 as when they create an enterprise conducive to fraud through their supervision of the enterprise.
 And crucially here, the Attorney General does not have to prove that an intent to defraud or
 reliance. This was one of the holdings of the lawsuit against Trump University that
 fraud under section 6312 may be established without proof of see-enter or reliance.
 And we've talked about mental states on this channel a lot. Some conduct can be illegal or
 legal depending on what mental state the person has when they engage in that conduct. And here,
 a lot of these violations can occur without any intentionality whatsoever, which is bad news when
 you have proof that the thing has happened. Now if your Goni ever gets nuked like Trump's,
 then you'll need a good lawyer. But if you want a great lawyer, my firm, the Eagle team can help.
 If you've had an injury or a death in the family suffered a data breach or are dealing with
 Social Security disability or workers' compasses, we can represent you or find you the right to
 turn who can. Just click on the link in the description for free consultation with my team.
 Because you don't just need a legal team, you need the Eagle team. Link is down below. But now back
 to Trump's problems. And here, James has argued that the statements of financial condition were false
 and misleading. The Trump defendant said that they were neither false nor misleading because,
 quote, there's no such thing as objective value. And there's nothing wrong with adjusting
 valuations because of factors such as the value of the Trump brand. As the court put it, quote,
 thus defendants essentially argue that value is inherently subjective. That because internal
 brand valuations are in the eye of the beholder, pure Donald Trump, they cannot be overvalued.
 And the Trump defendants argue that banks and insurance companies weren't misled because
 they never would have relied on the financial statements alone. As the court put it, quote,
 defendants' stances, practically speaking, that they may submit false SFCs as long as the recipients
 know from their own due diligence that the information is false. The judge said accepting this premise
 would ignore decades of subtle law that property valuation is objective, not subjective,
 and that market value is the most reliable way to establish how much a property is worth.
 Now, of course, there is a kernel of truth in the defendant's argument that the property
 valuation isn't an exact science. And experts can certainly disagree. And sometimes you have
 different valuations for the purposes of a tax basis versus reliance for collateral. But as the
 judge explained, the problem for Trump is that these were not small discrepancies. Quote,
 what OAG has established in many cases by clear, indisputable documentary evidence is not a matter
 of rounding errors or reasonable experts disagreeing. OAG has submitted conclusive evidence
 at between 2014 and 2021. Defendants' overvalued the assets reported on the SFCs between 17.27 and 38.51%.
 This amounts to a discrepancy of between 812 million and $2.2 billion, even in the world of
 high finances, court cannot endorse a proposition that finds misstatements of at least $812 million
 to be immaterial. Defendants have failed to identify any authority for the notion that
 discrepancies of the smagditude demonstrated here could be considered immaterial. And that's why
 the Attorney General moved for some rejudgment, effectively a trial on paper, just on one count,
 a standalone violation of executive law 6312. And to prove that count, the Attorney General only
 needed to prove that the financial statements were false and misleading and that the defendants
 repeatedly or persistently use the statements to transact business. Again, here there was no
 intent requirement. And the judge had no problem finding that the AG proved its case. The judge said
 that this was a documents case and the documents here clearly contain fraudulent valuations that
 defendants used in business, satisfying the OAG's burden to establish liability as a matter of
 law against defendants. And the judge slammed Donald Trump's deposition testimony as well.
 Quote, the defense Donald Trump attempts to articulate in his sworn deposition are wholly without
 basis in law or fact. He claims that if the values of the property have gone up in the years since
 the SFCs were submitted, then the numbers were not inflated at the time. That is, quote,
 but you take the 2014 statement if something is much more valuable now, or I guess we'll have to
 pick a date, which was a little short of now. But if something is much more valuable now,
 then the number that I have down here is a low number. He also seems to imply that the numbers
 cannot be inflated because he could find a, quote, buyer from Saudi Arabia to pay any price he
 suggests. Now, I know the emoluments cases didn't go anywhere, but this is just a truly stunning
 thing to say when your international business dealings were already under scrutiny. And you've
 received a lot of criticism for potentially foreign influence. It's just, man, it's kind of like
 saying, well, it was worth it because Vladimir Putin would have paid me $5 billion for this particular
 piece of property. It just, it feels like the quiet part out loud. And not to mention there is a very
 famous incident of Trump selling a Florida property to a Russian Olegarch at a hugely inflated price.
 But I digress. Judge Engeron also touched on the issue of square footage. Quote, this court takes
 judicial notice that the Trump Tower apartment in which Donald Trump resided for decades, the
 triplex is 10,996 square feet between 2012 and 2016. Donald Trump submitted SFCs, falsely claiming
 that the triplex was 30,000 square feet, resulting in an overvaluation of between 114 and 207 million
 dollars. And the court agreed the quote, a discrepancy of this order of magnitude by a real estate
 developer sizing up his own living space of decades can only be considered fraud. And the judge
 found that the attorney general unquestionably satisfied its two-pronged burden of demonstrating
 that the SFCs from 2012 to 2016 calculated the value of the triplex based on a false and misleading
 square footage. And the judge made similar findings with respect to the seven springs of state,
 Trump Park Avenue, Forty Wall Street, Aberdeen and several other additional golf clubs and Mar-a-Lago.
 And the judge found the Trump overvalued Mar-a-Lago by an establishing 2300%. And the judge was
 unpersuaded by the testimony of Lawrence Moons, a supposed expert in Palm Beach property valuation,
 who estimated the property is worth 1.5 billion. When Moons was asked, who would be prepared to buy
 the club, he said, quote, I could dream up anyone from Elon Musk to Bill Gates and everyone in
 between. King's Emperor's heads of state. Anyone with net worth in the multiple billions. I don't
 know how many people in the world have a net worth of more than 10 billion. But I think it's quite
 a number. There are a lot. And in a very pointed footnote, the court said, quote, obviously this court
 cannot consider an expert affidavit that is based on unexplained and unsubstantiated dreams.
 So with that, we can finally talk about the staggering ramifications from this order.
 The judge ruled that the attorney general demonstrated liability on behalf of all the
 named individual defendants on count one, including Trump, Donald Trump Jr, Eric Trump, Alan Weiselberg,
 and Jeff McConey. And as for the entity defendants, parent corporations can only be held liable for
 the acts of its subsidiaries if the parent exercised complete dominion and control over the subsidiary.
 And the judge found that quote, it is undisputed that Donald Trump through one corporate form or
 another exercised complete control over the umbrella of entities operating in furtherance of or
 on behalf of the Trump organization. And the attorney general established liability on behalf of
 all the named entity defendants. When the litigation started, the judge granted the attorney general
 of preliminary injunction and appointed Barbara Jones as an independent monitor to ensure that there
 is no further fraud or illegal activity. And on August 23, Jones told the judge that the defendants had
 continued to commit the same acts. Quote, even with a preliminary injunction in place and with an
 independent monitor overseeing their compliance, defendants have continued to disseminate false and
 misleading information while conducting business. And this includes setting up Trump organization
 two, a corporate entity that defendants established in Delaware back in October of 2022, which looks
 an awful lot like an attempt to offload assets before the case went to trial. But with the
 corporate monitor in place, it's unlikely that they could have succeeded there. We'll actually see
 what happens with the details there. But all of this is why the judge dissolved the business
 certificates of 10 Trump business entities ending their ability to do business in New York.
 The corporations are legal fictions and when you take away and dissolve those companies,
 they can no longer own property or shield the beneficial owners. And the order includes quote,
 any other entity controlled or beneficially owned by the individual defendants found liable here.
 Now the Trump organization includes about 500 entities and although only 10 were explicitly
 included in this order, they own some of Trump's biggest assets including the property at 40 Wall
 Street in Manhattan and the golf course in Scotland. Barbara Jones will continue to oversee the
 finances of the Trump organization pending any further rulings and obviously Trump is going to
 appeal here. And the trial is currently proceeding on the other six counts falsifying business records,
 conspiracy to falsify business records, filing false financial statements, conspiracy to file
 false financial statements insurance fraud and conspiracy to commit insurance fraud. And by all
 accounts, it's going very poorly so far. Expect to follow a video on that very soon. And
 Latisha James is seeking at least $250 million and has asked the court to permanently bar Trump
 from serving as an officer or director of any business in New York and prohibit him from
 acquiring any real estate or applying for a loan in the state for five years. And the AG wants
 the same restrictions for dawn junior and air Trump and the ramifications of this ruling are
 enormous with lawyers describing it as the corporate death penalty. The Trump entities are essentially
 in a receivership, which is a situation where a receiver or trustee is appointed to manage the
 entire company its assets and all financial and operating decisions until the companies are wound
 down. Barbara Jones is in this role right now and the Trump entities won't be able to buy or sell
 anything without her approval and there'll be a long process of figuring out which assets all the
 Trump companies own and who their creditors are. And if this order is upheld, the Trump
 organization's assets will have to be liquidated to pay off all of the creditors and the fact that
 these corporate entities can no longer own any property. And that means that they can be put up for
 auction and sold to the highest bidder. And there are many potential creditors here, all of whom
 we're getting paid before Trump does, if there is even a surplus based on the sales here. And that
 includes banks that gave Trump loans based on fraudulent valuations, insurance companies,
 contractors, construction workers, service workers, other vendors, and also of course the government
 who will probably want their unpaid taxes and any penalties and discouragement penalties that come
 as a result of this verdict. And there are some suggestions that some where all of Trump's
 branding rights might have been assigned to a corporate entity and that the entity might be
 affected by the dissolutions. If true, and I haven't been able to drill down on this entirely,
 it could mean that Trump might lose the ability to capitalize on his own name and brand in some
 situations because they might be sold off to somebody else. Irony can be very ironic sometimes.
 So yeah, this is basically like a bankruptcy for all of the New York entities, not the fun
 bankruptcy chapter 11 where everything gets reorganized and the company continues, but the
 really nasty one where everything gets sold off for parts, the chapter seven bankruptcy. And there
 are a lot of creditors, including the government we're going to get paid before Trump does,
 but there are limitations to this ruling. For example, Trump owns property in several other
 states and all over the world that will not be part of this case if they weren't owned by one of
 the dissolved entities. But that actually may not be much of a limitation because a lot of the
 real estate that he owns, whether it's the United States or across the world, is owned by one of
 these New York companies. And if that real estate is owned by one of the dissolved New York companies,
 it's very likely that that real estate is going to have to be liquidated. And the thing about
 buying these assets out of receivership or bankruptcy is that you have to have the cash on hand
 to be able to buy that property. And at this point, Trump might be pretty strapped for cash.
 We'll see. The repercussions here are staggering. And who knows what this is going to look like.
 Now, if Trump's name, image, and likeness rights are sold off, then he'd really benefit from a
 company that didn't get his personal data taken down online, which you could do with today's sponsor
 in Cogni. Now, I don't know about you, but I've seen a huge uptick in the amount of spam I'm getting.
 And it's no surprise why every year, the number and scope of data breaches worldwide is rising.
 And you might not know it, but there are hundreds of data brokers that possess and sell your personal
 information and their numbers grow every year. I was shocked when I saw literally hundreds of
 companies who had my personal data. And these data brokers might have a whole shadow profile on you,
 including your name, your address, phone number, shopping habits, possibly even your social security
 number, all up from the highest bidder. And it best leads to scam calls and it worst,
 identity theft and doxing. So for example, if you're getting tons of
 Robo calls to your cell phone or calls from scammers, like I am, like basically every day,
 there's a good chance it's because your data is online. And sometimes it's completely legal,
 but totally nefarious, like health insurance companies that raise your rates because they got
 access to your personal health data. But that's where in Cogni comes in. In Cogni fights in your
 behalf, remove your personal data from data brokers and deals with any objections from their side.
 All you have to do is create an account and give them approval to work on your behalf. And
 in Cogni conducts repeated ongoing removals because even if the broker removes your data once,
 they can collect it again, which is just so done. And in Cogni, make sure that your personal
 information stays off the market for good. And you can see when in Cogni does this on your personal
 dashboard. This is mine. It shows that these sites had data on me that was rated 10 out of 10 on
 in Cogni's sensitivity scale. Those brokers had data including my contacts, financial data,
 and health data. But thankfully, in Cogni tells me when the removal requests are complete,
 so I can breathe easy. It's terrifying to see exactly how many brokers have my data,
 but it's really fun to watch in Cogni get them to delete that info one by one.
 So give in Cogni a try by clicking on the link below and get 60% off in Cogni when you use the code
 legal eagle. Again, to get an exclusive 60% off discount, just click on the link that's on screen
 right now or down in the description and use the code legal eagle. After that, click on this link
 over here for more legal eagle or I'll see you in court.
